[docs] Dedicated docs on how to skip building an image on pipeline run (#3079)
zenml-io/zenml: docs/book/how-to/customize-docker-builds/use-a-prebuilt-image.md

---
description: "Skip building an image for your ZenML pipeline altogether."
---

> # Use a prebuilt image for pipeline execution

Reviewer: In general this is missing that the image needs to be stored in a registry where the orchestrator/step operator/other components that require the image can pull from, without any involvement by ZenML.

Author: good catch. added it as a warning

> When running a pipeline on a remote Stack, ZenML builds a Docker image with a base ZenML image and adds all of your project dependencies and your pipeline code to it. This process might take significant time depending on how big your dependencies are, how powerful your local system is and how fast your internet connection is. This is because Docker must pull base layers and push the final image to your container registry. Although this process only happens once and is skipped if ZenML detects no change in your environment, it might still be a bottleneck slowing down your pipeline execution.

Reviewer: The code is added only in very rare cases where all other options are not possible or explictly disabled

Author: got it. modified to reflect this. what are the other options you're talking about? code repo, and notebook envs?

To save time and costs, you can choose to not build a Docker image every time your pipeline runs. This guide shows you how to do it using a prebuilt image, what you should include in your image for the pipeline to run successfully and other tips.

{% hint style="info" %}
Note that using this feature means that you won't be able to leverage any updates you make to your code or dependencies, outside of what your image already contains.
{% endhint %}

## Where you can use this feature

- When you are running in an environment that either doesn't have Docker installed or doesn't have enough memory to pull your base image and build a new image on top of it (think Codespaces or other CI/CD environments).

> - When ZenML has already built an image for your code in a previous pipeline run and you want to reuse it in a new run. This saves you build times at the cost of not being able to leverage any updates you made to your code (or your dependencies) since then.

Reviewer: My suggestion would be to not actually suggest this to anyone if the images include code. Docker images should be reused only when they do not contain code, and then the whole limitation you point out here does not apply.

Reviewer: In most cases, our code should by the way also detect these exact cases and reuse existing builds anyway. Unless the dependencies change, at which point we build a new image.

Reviewer: IMO the recommended solution for 99% of people is to rely on our build reuse, and use a remote image builder to avoid the first scenario

Author: okay makes sense to me. i have removed this section for now as I don't think we want people using this feature at all

@pipeline(settings={"docker": docker_settings})
def my_pipeline(...):
    ...
```

## What the parent image should contain

When you run a pipeline with a pre-built image, skipping the build process, ZenML will not build any image on top of it. This means that the image you provide to the `parent_image` attribute of the `DockerSettings` class has to contain all the code and dependencies that are needed to run your pipeline.

{% hint style="info" %}
Note that this is different from the case where you [only specify a parent image](../../../../docs/book/how-to/customize-docker-builds/docker-settings-on-a-pipeline.md#using-a-pre-built-parent-image) and don't want to `skip_build`. In the latter, ZenML still builds the image but does it on top of your parent image and not the base ZenML image.
{% endhint %}
{% hint style="info" %}
If you're using an image that was already built by ZenML in a previous pipeline run, you don't need to worry about what goes in it as long as it was built for the same stack as your current pipeline run. You can use it directly.
{% endhint %}

The following points are derived from how ZenML builds an image internally and will help you make your own images.

> ### Your stack requirements

Reviewer: I think this should be highlighted more, that this image can not be used for new runs unless it's on the same stack.

Author: i put it in bold to emphasize but we are not focusing on reusing an image in this page anyways. and most of it is about preparing an image to be used for execution and not having ZenML build the image for you. In that case, a line in the info section should be enough imo

> A ZenML Stack can have different tools and each comes with its own requirements. You need to ensure that your image contains them. The following is how you can get a list of stack requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ZenML Stack can have different components and each comes with its own requirements. You need to ensure that your image contains them. The following is how you can get a list of stack requirements.
```

from zenml.integrations.constants import HUGGINGFACE, PYTORCH

# define a list of all required integrations
required_integrations = [PYTORCH, HUGGINGFACE]

# Generate requirements for all required integrations
integration_requirements = set(
    itertools.chain.from_iterable(
        integration_registry.select_integration_requirements(
            integration_name=integration,
            target_os=OperatingSystemType.LINUX,
        )
        for integration in required_integrations
    )
)
```

### Any project-specific requirements

For any other dependencies that your project relies on, you can then install all of these different requirements through a line in your `Dockerfile` that looks like the following. It assumes you have accumulated all the requirements in one file.

```Dockerfile
RUN pip install <ANY_ARGS> -r FILE
```

### Any system packages

If you have any `apt` packages that are needed for your application to function, be sure to include them too. This can be achieved in a `Dockerfile` as follows:

```Dockerfile
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends YOUR_APT_PACKAGES
```

### Your project code files

> The files containing your pipeline and step code and all other necessary functions should also be available inside the image. Take a look at [which files are built into the image](../../../../docs/book/how-to/customize-docker-builds/which-files-are-built-into-the-image.md) page to learn more about what to include. 

Reviewer: This does not tell people where the code should be stored yet

Author: i modified this to include the different cases around code upload/download. what did you mean by "where the code should be stored yet"?

Reviewer: Ah sorry could have phrased that more clearly: They should include the files in `/app`, and also make sure that that is the active working directory

Author: got it, i've added that

> # Skip building an image on every pipeline run

Reviewer 2: This already gets done as code is uploaded to artifact store

Author: you're right. what could be a better title? how about "Use a pre-built image for pipeline execution"

> When running a pipeline on a remote Stack, ZenML builds a Docker image with a base ZenML image and adds all of your project dependencies and your pipeline code to it. This process might take significant time depending on how big your dependencies are, how powerful your local system is and how fast your internet connection is (to pull base layers and push the final image to your container registry). 

Reviewer 2: This is wrong right because zenml by default only builds the image if it detects environment changes

Author: correct! i added some text stressing that this doesn't always happen

To save time and costs, you can choose to not build a Docker image every time your pipeline runs. This guide shows you how to do it using a pre-built image, what you should include in your image for the pipeline to run successfully and other tips.

{% hint style="info" %}
Note that using this feature means that you won't be able to leverage any updates you make to your code or dependencies, outside of what your image already contains.
{% endhint %}

The DockerSettings class in ZenML allows you to set a parent image to be used in your pipeline runs and the ability to skip building an image on top of it. This approach works in two ways:
- [If ZenML built an image for your pipeline previously](#if-zenml-built-an-image-for-your-pipeline-previously)
- [If ZenML has never built an image for your pipeline](#if-zenml-has-never-built-an-image-for-your-pipeline)

> ## If ZenML built an image for your pipeline previously

Reviewer 2: Does it matter if zenml has built the image before or not?

Author: It matters in the sense that if zenml had already built an image, you can just reuse it directly in your dockersettings with skip_build set to True. No worrying about adding the code and dependencies yourself

Reviewer 2: @wjayesh I think this distinction is just weird to separate so clearly at this level. if anything maybe an addendum at the end of a section that you can reuse an image built by zenml before (you start the chapter with saying you want to avoid zenml building an image in the first place after all)

I think anytime users set skip_build=True they should really know whats happening

Author: i agree, it doesn't make sense to talk about that case when the title is about not using an image. i have amended it

```python
from zenml.integrations.registry import integration_registry
from zenml.integrations.constants import HUGGINGFACE, PYTORCH

# define a list of all required integrations
required_integrations = [PYTORCH, HUGGINGFACE]

# Generate requirements for all required integrations
integration_requirements = set(
    itertools.chain.from_iterable(
        integration_registry.select_integration_requirements(
            integration_name=integration,
            target_os=OperatingSystemType.LINUX,
        )
        for integration in required_integrations
    )
)
```

#### Any project specific requirements

Any other dependencies that your project relies on. You can then install all of these different requirements through a line in your Dockerfile that looks like the following. It assumes you have accumulated all the requirements in one file.

```Dockerfile
RUN pip insatll <ANY_ARGS> -r FILE
```

#### Any system packages

If you have any apt packages that are needed for your application to function, be sure to include them too. This can be achieved in a Dockerfile as follows:

```Dockerfile

> RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y 
> --no-install-recommends YOUR_APT_PACKAGES

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends YOUR_APT_PACKAGES
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Note that using this feature means that you won't be able to leverage any updates you make to your code or dependencies, outside of what your image already contains.
{% endhint %}

## How do you use this feature

The [DockerSettings](../../../../docs/book/how-to/customize-docker-builds/docker-settings-on-a-pipeline.md#specify-docker-settings-for-a-pipeline) class in ZenML allows you to set a parent image to be used in your pipeline runs and the ability to skip building an image on top of it.

Just set the `parent_image` attribute of the `DockerSettings` class to the image you want to use and set `skip_build` to `True`.

```python
docker_settings = DockerSettings(
    parent_image="my_registry.io/image_name:tag",
    skip_build=True
)

@pipeline(settings={"docker": docker_settings})
def my_pipeline(...):
    ...
```

{% hint style="warning" %}
You should make sure that this image is pushed to a registry where the orchestrator/step operator/other components that require the image can pull it from, without any involvement by ZenML.
{% endhint %}

## What the parent image should contain

> When you run a pipeline with a pre-built image, skipping the build process, ZenML will not build any image on top of it. This means that the image you provide to the `parent_image` attribute of the `DockerSettings` class has to contain all the code and dependencies that are needed to run your pipeline.

Author: good catch. i changed it

{% hint style="info" %}

> Note that this is different from the case where you [only specify a parent image](../../../../docs/book/how-to/customize-docker-builds/docker-settings-on-a-pipeline.md#using-a-pre-built-parent-image) and don't want to `skip_build`. In the latter, ZenML still builds the image but does it on top of your parent image and not the base ZenML image.

Reviewer 2: you can just use a relative link like `./docker-settings-on-a-pipeline.md#using-a-pre-built-parent-image`

required_integrations = [PYTORCH, HUGGINGFACE]

# Generate requirements for all required integrations
integration_requirements = set(
    itertools.chain.from_iterable(
        integration_registry.select_integration_requirements(
            integration_name=integration,
            target_os=OperatingSystemType.LINUX,
        )
        for integration in required_integrations
    )
)
```

### Any project-specific requirements

For any other dependencies that your project relies on, you can then install all of these different requirements through a line in your `Dockerfile` that looks like the following. It assumes you have accumulated all the requirements in one file.

```Dockerfile
RUN pip install <ANY_ARGS> -r FILE
```

### Any system packages

If you have any `apt` packages that are needed for your application to function, be sure to include them too. This can be achieved in a `Dockerfile` as follows:

```Dockerfile
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends YOUR_APT_PACKAGES
```

### Your project code files

The files containing your pipeline and step code and all other necessary functions should be available in your execution environment.

> - If you have a code repository registered, you don't need to include your code files in the image yourself. ZenML will download them from the repository to the appropriate location in the image.

Reviewer 2: link to code repo docs?

- If you don't have a code repository but `allow_download_from_artifact_store` is set to `True` in your `DockerSettings` (`True` by default), ZenML will upload your code to the artifact store and make it available to the image.

- If both of these options are disabled, you can include your code files in the image yourself.

> Take a look at [which files are built into the image](../../../../docs/book/how-to/customize-docker-builds/which-files-are-built-into-the-image.md) page to learn more about what to include.

Reviewer 2: I think this whole paragraph should rather say that OPTIONALLY project code files should be there... tbh if you think about this, if you put the entire code, and environment and then try to run wth zenml, the whole use-case doesn't make sense... 

For me you should not be putting the code inside the docker image if you are using a pre-built docker image.. not sure what @schustmi thinkks

Author: I changed the wording a bit to reflect that the
- code should be available in the execution environment (not implying in the image itself)
- including code in the image (the third step) is not recommended.

open to what michael says

---
description: "Skip building an image for your ZenML pipeline altogether."
---

# Use a prebuilt image for pipeline execution

> When running a pipeline on a remote Stack, ZenML builds a Docker image with a base ZenML image and adds all of your project dependencies and your pipeline code to it. This process might take significant time depending on how big your dependencies are, how powerful your local system is and how fast your internet connection is (to pull base layers and push the final image to your container registry). Although this process only happens once and is skipped if ZenML detects no change in your environment, it might still be a bottleneck in your pipeline execution.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When running a pipeline on a remote Stack, ZenML builds a Docker image with a base ZenML image and adds all of your project dependencies and your pipeline code to it. This process might take significant time depending on how big your dependencies are, how powerful your local system is and how fast your internet connection is. This is because Docker must pull base layers and push the final image to your container registry. Although this process only happens once and is skipped if ZenML detects no change in your environment, it might still be a bottleneck slowing down your pipeline execution.
```

> To save time and costs, you can choose to not build a Docker image every time your pipeline runs. This guide shows you how to do it using a pre-built image, what you should include in your image for the pipeline to run successfully and other tips.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To save time and costs, you can choose to not build a Docker image every time your pipeline runs. This guide shows you how to do it using a prebuilt image, what you should include in your image for the pipeline to run successfully and other tips.
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Note that using this feature means that you won't be able to leverage any updates you make to your code or dependencies, outside of what your image already contains.
{% endhint %}

> The DockerSettings class in ZenML allows you to set a parent image to be used in your pipeline runs and the ability to skip building an image on top of it. This approach works in two ways:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `DockerSettings` class in ZenML allows you to set a parent image to be used in your pipeline runs and the ability to skip building an image on top of it. This approach works in two ways:
```

Reviewer 2: Might also help with a link

- [If ZenML built an image for your pipeline previously](#if-zenml-built-an-image-for-your-pipeline-previously)
- [If ZenML has never built an image for your pipeline](#if-zenml-has-never-built-an-image-for-your-pipeline)

> 

Reviewer 2: I would start this with a subsection that says "What needs to be in an execution image" and then describe the things that need to be installed

Author: makes sense. done

## If ZenML built an image for your pipeline previously

This is the case where you have had a previous pipeline run where ZenML did build an image and pushed it your registry.

Here, you can just reuse the image by setting it to the `parent_image` attribute of the `DockerSettings` class and setting `skip_build` to `True`.

```python
docker_settings = DockerSettings(
    parent_image="my_registry.io/image_name:tag",
    skip_build=True
)

@pipeline(settings={"docker": docker_settings})
def my_pipeline(...):
    ...
```

> On every subsequent pipeline run now, ZenML will just use the code and the dependencies that were a part of the pipeline run whose image you are now using. This approach works without you having to worry about what goes in the image since ZenML built it in the first place.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With this configuration, every subsequent pipeline run now will have ZenML use the code and the dependencies that were a part of the pipeline run whose image you specified. This approach works without you having to worry about what goes in the image since ZenML built it in the first place.
```

## If ZenML has never built an image for your pipeline

This is the case where you are running a pipeline for the first time with ZenML and don't want ZenML to build an image for you. Here, you will have to provide an image to the `parent_image` attribute which already has all of your code and the right dependencies installed.

{% hint style="info" %}
Note that this is different from the case where you [only specify a parent image](../../../../docs/book/how-to/customize-docker-builds/docker-settings-on-a-pipeline.md#using-a-pre-built-parent-image) and don't want to `skip_build`. In the latter, ZenML still builds the image but does it on top of your parent image and not the base ZenML image.
{% endhint %}

> ### What should your image contain

Reviewer 2: Id move this at the top, as said in my other comment

It is crucial that you ensure that all of your code files and dependencies are included in the image you provide to `DockerSettings` as parent image. This is because ZenML expects to be able to execute this image right away, without any modifications, to run your pipeline steps.

> The following points are derived from how ZenML builds an image internally and will help you make your own images:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following points are derived from how ZenML builds an image internally and will help you make your own images.
```

#### Your stack requirements

A ZenML Stack can have different tools and each comes with its own requirements. You need to ensure that your image contains them. The following is how you can get a list of stack requirements.

```python
from zenml.client import Client

stack_name = <YOUR_STACK>
# set your stack as active if it isn't already
Client().set_active_stack(stack_name)

# get the requirements for the active stack
active_stack = Client().active_stack
stack_requirements = active_stack.requirements()
```

#### Integration requirements

> For all integrations that you use in your pipeline, you need to have their dependencies installed too. The following is how you can get a list of them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For all integrations that you use in your pipeline, you need to have their dependencies installed too. You can get a list of them in the following way:
```

```python
from zenml.integrations.registry import integration_registry
from zenml.integrations.constants import HUGGINGFACE, PYTORCH

# define a list of all required integrations
required_integrations = [PYTORCH, HUGGINGFACE]

# Generate requirements for all required integrations
integration_requirements = set(
    itertools.chain.from_iterable(
        integration_registry.select_integration_requirements(
            integration_name=integration,
            target_os=OperatingSystemType.LINUX,
        )
        for integration in required_integrations
    )
)
```

> #### Any project specific requirements

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Any project-specific requirements
```

> Any other dependencies that your project relies on. You can then install all of these different requirements through a line in your Dockerfile that looks like the following. It assumes you have accumulated all the requirements in one file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For any other dependencies that your project relies on, you can then install all of these different requirements through a line in your `Dockerfile` that looks like the following. It assumes you have accumulated all the requirements in one file.
```

```Dockerfile

> RUN pip insatll <ANY_ARGS> -r FILE

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RUN pip install <ANY_ARGS> -r FILE
```

```

#### Any system packages

> If you have any apt packages that are needed for your application to function, be sure to include them too. This can be achieved in a Dockerfile as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have any `apt` packages that are needed for your application to function, be sure to include them too. This can be achieved in a `Dockerfile` as follows:
```

```Dockerfile
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends YOUR_APT_PACKAGES
```

#### Your project code files

The files containing your pipeline and step code and all other necessary functions should also be available inside the image. Take a look at [which files are built into the image](../../../../docs/book/how-to/customize-docker-builds/which-files-are-built-into-the-image.md) page to learn more about what to include. 

{% hint style="info" %}

> Note that you also need Python, pip and zenml installed in your image.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that you also need Python, `pip` and `zenml` installed in your image.
```

{% endhint %}

> ## Where you can use this feature

Reviewer 2: id also move this more to the top

- One way to use this is when ZenML has already built an image for your code in a previous pipeline run and you want to reuse it in a new run. This saves you build times at the cost of not being able to leverage any updates you made to your code (or your dependencies) since then.

> - Another use case is when you are running in an environment that either doesn't have docker installed or doesn't have enough memory to pull your base image and build a new image on top of it (think Codespaces or other CI/CD environments).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Another use case is when you are running in an environment that either doesn't have Docker installed or doesn't have enough memory to pull your base image and build a new image on top of it (think Codespaces or other CI/CD environments).
```

To save time and costs, you can choose to not build a Docker image every time your pipeline runs. This guide shows you how to do it using a prebuilt image, what you should include in your image for the pipeline to run successfully and other tips.

{% hint style="info" %}
Note that using this feature means that you won't be able to leverage any updates you make to your code or dependencies, outside of what your image already contains.
{% endhint %}

## How do you use this feature

> The [DockerSettings](../../../../docs/book/how-to/customize-docker-builds/docker-settings-on-a-pipeline.md#specify-docker-settings-for-a-pipeline) class in ZenML allows you to set a parent image to be used in your pipeline runs and the ability to skip building an image on top of it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [`DockerSettings`](../../../../docs/book/how-to/customize-docker-builds/docker-settings-on-a-pipeline.md#specify-docker-settings-for-a-pipeline) class in ZenML allows you to set a parent image to be used in your pipeline runs and gives the ability to skip building an image on top of it.
```

this relative link feels like it has too many `..`s in it, btw... :)

> Just set the `parent_image` attribute of the `DockerSettings` class to the image you want to use and set `skip_build` to `True`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To do this, just set the `parent_image` attribute of the `DockerSettings` class to the image you want to use and set `skip_build` to `True`.
```

maybe also put this sentence directly as part of the previous paragraph?

Author: i see your point but i like it as a separate line to act as an instruction for the code that comes next.

    ...
```

{% hint style="warning" %}

> You should make sure that this image is pushed to a registry where the orchestrator/step operator/other components that require the image can pull it from, without any involvement by ZenML.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You should make sure that this image is pushed to a registry from which the orchestrator/step operator/other components that require the image can pull, without any involvement by ZenML.
```
